- [Instructor] Since we are dealing
with the web application, now it's a great time
to talk about web services with Spring.
Spring Boot web services use an MVC implementation.
The pattern is exactly the same as web applications.
But in the case of web services,
the view is the content type of the page, not HTML.
You use RestController instead of Controller
in order to not map to a view.
Instead, an object that has been marshaled is returned.
And once again, you get JSON
as the default output type for the view.
You can add things like XML if you choose to.
Now, I'm going to build off my solution
from the last chapter to make it easier.
But let's take a look at how to build a web service
in our existing application.
In our room-web-app, I want to open up src, main, java,
our default package, and then the controllers.
And we're going to create a new controller.
We're going to call this RoomRestController.
We'll annotate this with @RestController
and @RequestMapping,
slash api, slash rooms.
Now, we want to get an instance of our service,
so private final RoomService.
And this is why I went ahead and added those last time.
'Cause it just makes it easier to use a service,
and then I don't have to recreate static data
and then fix it later.
I'm going to go ahead and generate a constructor with that.
Once again, your ID will have the ability
to generate things like getters, setters,
constructors, two strings.
I'm just doing it with mine using Control, Enter.
So now we need to actually do our methods.
So we're going to do an @GetMapping public List.
And this you'll notice is different.
Instead of returning a string,
I'm going to return a list of rooms.
Call this one getAllRooms,
and we don't pass in any parameters
because I don't need any in order to execute this call.
Let's go ahead and import that room.
Import list.
And we are simply going
to return roomService.getAllRooms.
And that's all there is to it.
Go ahead and start up our web application.
And once it's started up,
I want to jump into a terminal window.
Now, from the terminal window, I'm going to do an HTTP,
which is the HTTPI application that I use.
Again, you can use cURL if you choose to.
I'm going to go against local host, api, rooms.
And you'll see that I've now returned JSON data
that represents those room elements.
And this is all prettified, which is why I like HTTPI.
But if you did a cURL,
most likely, you're just going to see it raw.
And that's okay too.
But you can see that we made the request.
We got a 200 back, and we got JSON elements
based on what we had built.
And really, that's all there is to building a web service
with Spring Boot.